README.md, before:

## Ormeline Luyengi

## Navigation

<div align="center">

[![profile](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Profile-blue?style=for-the-badge)](#profile)
[![projects](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Projects-blue?style=for-the-badge)](#projects)
[![skills](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Skills-blue?style=for-the-badge)](#skills)
[![experience](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Experience-blue?style=for-the-badge)](#experience)
[![education](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Education-blue?style=for-the-badge)](#education)
[![hobbies](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Hobbies-blue?style=for-the-badge)](#hobbies)

</div>

## Where you can find me

<div align="center">

[LinkedIn Profile ↗](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ormeline-luyengi-626491211)
[Email](mailto:luyengiormeline@gmail.com)
[CodeWars Profile ↗](https://www.codewars.com/users/Mellu23)
[GitHub Profile ↗](https://github.com/Ormeline)

</div>


## Profile

I am a diligent and quick-learning software engineer, who is passionate about leveraging technology to create positive change. I become a developer due to the desire of tackling complex problems, constantly learning, and building products that can improve people's lives.

After completing law school, I spent years honing my analytical skills and attention to detail as a paralegal and solicitor specialising in immigration law, family law and civil litigation.

I have recently completed an intensive training at [Makers Academy](https://makers.tech) and [HyperionDev] (https://www.hyperiondev.com/bootcamps/immersive full-stack-web-and-software-engineer/) (London's leading bootcamp providers) to successfully transition into software engineering and make my dream of becoming a developer a reality.

I wish to work for a mission-led company committed to innovation and diversity. I hope to collaborate on impactful projects as part of a fun, encouraging team where I can continue growing my skills. As someone who values empathy, ethics and social justice, I aim to leverage my technical and legal expertise to expand access to technology for the benefit of society.


## Projects
| Name      | Description                                                                                                                                                    | Tech/tools                                                                    | How to access                                                   |
| --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Gig Guru  | A music event finding app inspired by iTunes (final project) - allows users to find events happening in the UK, like the events, and view their exact location | React, Jest, HTML/CSS, Cypress, Discovery API, Google Maps API, MongoDB Atlas | [Github Repo ↗](https://github.com/aliceswood/gig-guru)         |
| Acebook   | Inherited a Facebook clone that was built as part of the week 8-9 Makers engineering group project                                                             | MongoDB, Express, React, Node.js, Cypress, Ruby                               | [Github Repo ↗](https://github.com/cshjp/acebook-team-earth)    |
| MakersBnb | Redesigned Airbnb clone built as part of the week 6 Makers group project                                                                                       | Ruby, Sinatra, PostgreSQL, Capybara, RSpec                                    | [Github Repo ↗](https://github.com/Ormeline/Makersbnb-group-project) |


## Skills

## Technical skills

| Purpose    | Languages        | Front end frameworks | API frameworks | Databases           | Unit testing frameworks | Front end testing frameworks | Code Coverage | Hosting | Styling |
| ---------- | ---------------- | -------------------- | -------------- | ------------------- | ----------------------- | ---------------------------- | ------------- | ------- | ------- |
| Technology | Javascript, Ruby | React                | Express        | MongoDB, PostgreSQL | Rspec, Jest             | Cypress                      | Jest, Rubocop | Heroku  | CSS     |


## Experience

#### Molanza Consulting
**Consultant (Part-Time) (August 2022 - Present)**

- Developing FlightInfoHero, an aggregation platform for airport parking, airline baggage allowance, and seat map data. Tasks include:
- Maintaining Python scripts used for web scraping with Beautiful Soup module to ensure any changes in target websites are reflected.
- Automating the data formatting pipeline by pushing aggregated data to the OpenAI endpoint to ensure all records return consistent.
- Working with CTO on product roadmap and engaging in paired programming to enhance my technical knowledge of the stack used.


#### LegaInfoHero 
**Developer, Co-Founder (Voluntary) (July 2023 to Present)**

Inspired by FlightInfoHero, I started working on a platform where legal advice from all over the internet is aggregated, made easy to understand with the help of AI and presented freely online to help disadvantaged minorities get access to quality advice. Tasks include:
- Writing scripts to aggregate data with Beautiful Soup and convert it into JSON to facilitate direct import into the NextJS frontend. 
- Designed form wizards that ask users a set of legal questions anonymously, then checks backend to automatically return advice.
- Conducted research on Facebook groups and spoke to family and friends to better understand their grievances with the legal system.


#### VLS Solicitors 
**Trainee Solicitor -> Solicitor (June 2021 to July 2022)** 

At VLS, I specialised in Immigration, Civil Litigation, and Family Law as a Trainee Solicitor then qualified Solicitor. My duties included:
- Assisting clients on legal matters such as entry clearance, leave to remain, visa extensions, naturalisation, and revocation of deportation orders. Handling first-tier and upper tribunal appeals. Keeping the firm updated on immigration law and policy changes.
- Training and managing caseworkers and work experience students, tracking their progress and identifying areas for improvement.
- Demonstrated proactive attitude by continuously seeking top-up training, improving commercial awareness through reading articles and seeking new responsibilities in the firm. Exercised efficient time management and developed the ability to work under pressure.


## Non-technical skills

Through my background and intensive programming trainning at Makers Academy and HyperionDev, I have developed a versatile skillset combining technical programming skills and interpersonal abilities that make me a strong candidate for Software Developer roles. Additionally, my legal career has enabled me to develop skills that can add value to any organisation: 

#### Organisation and attention to detail

<p>
<ul>
    <li> As a solicitor, I was entrusted to manage my own caseload as such organisation and meticulous attention to detail were critical in managing case files and legal documents. I developed systems for tracking client information, key dates, and case progress. Reviewing court hearings, supporting documentation and witness statements refined my ability to thoroughly analyse complex documents and pointout inconsistencies. I will bring this same diligence to developer roles in proactively tracking project requirements and maintaining organised code. </li>
    <li> As my GitHub projects will demonstrate, I am a meticulous planner who diagrams and designs her project to make sure that I had a clear project vision. For example, in my Bank Tech Test (<a href="https://github.com/Ormeline/bank-tech-test"></a>) I created a diagram to plan out the classes, methods, and interactions needed to implement the bank account features. I also wrote user stories to define the required functionality from the user's perspective. My README outlines the test-driven development approach I followed, ensuring each class and method was fully tested using Jest. The project structure separates classes into individual files, following the single responsibility principle. I believe this project illustrates my ability to plan effectively and deliver a well-organised, fully tested codebase based on that design.</li>
</ul>
</p>
</details>


#### Project management 
<p>
<ul>
    <li> During my time as a solicitor, I honed my project management skills by effectively leading teams of caseworkers and work experience students. I excelled at delegating tasks, closely monitoring progress, and ensuring that court deadlines were met. Additionally, I demostrated my resourcefulness by managing multiple competing priorities within tight deadlines. </li>
    <li>Through participation in bootcamp group projects, I had the opportunity to refine my skills in agile practices such as sprint planning, task boards, retrospectives, and continuous delivery. This experience has equipped me with the ability to keep engineering teams aligned and ensure the delivery of high-quality code. </li>
</ul>
</p>
</details>


#### Presenting and communicating
<p>
<ul>
    <li> Communication was crucial in my legal career, from persuasively presenting arguments in court to explaining complex legal matters in plain english to clients.</li>
    <li> At Makers, I also gained experience discussing and demonstrating my code to my group by walking through the logic of my code. As a developer, I can apply my strong communication skills to clearly communicate with stakeholders, collaborate with colleagues, explain technical concepts to non-technical groups, and share knowledge across engineering teams.</li>
    <li> I also presented our final project to my Makers cohort where I discussed the technologies used and my team's overall experience. </li> 
</ul>
</p>
</details>


#### Teamwork and interpersonal skills
<p>
<ul>
    <li> I have gained extensive experience in effective communication and collaboration while working with clients, colleagues, barristers, and solicitors in the legal industry. This background has honed my skills as a proficient communicator and an attentive listener. I developed the ability to actively seek input from others, remain open-minded to different ideas, diplomatically resolve differences, and motivate colleagues towards shared goals. </li>
    <li> During my time at Makers Academy, I actively participated in pair programming sessions as well as engaging in group projects. Pair programming, in particular, was a significant component of our daily activities, and I thoroughly enjoyed it. At Molanza Consulting, I often collaborate with CTO on product roadmap and engaging in paired programming to enhance my technical knowledge of the stack used. These experiences further enhanced my teamwork abilities and allowed me to thrive in a collaborative environment</li>
    <li> Understanding the significance of effective pair programming, I took the initiative to documented my own set of guidelines and best practices. This allowed me to consistently improve my approach to pair programming, resulting in stronger pairing sessions and increased productivity. <a href="https://github.com/Ormeline/my-learning-journey-at-Makers/blob/main/weekly-objectives/pair-programming.md">here.</a></li>
</ul>
</p>
</details>

Other transferrable skills include: Critical thinking, Problem solving, Data analysis, Excellent customer service, Consultancy.

## Education

#### Makers Academy (March 2023 to July 2023)

- Full stack web development
- Focus on Test Driven Development, with an emphasis on pairing to problem solve efficiently and working in an agile way. Required team work and effective communication
- Object Oriented Programming & software design
- Independent learner and problem-solver
- Experience with MVC and DDD framework patterns



#### HyperionDev (December 2022 to March 2023)

- Completed the [Software Engineer Bootcamp](https://www.hyperiondev.com/bootcamps/software-engineering/) 13 weeks full time course.
- Learnt the fundamentals skills of backend development and machine learning (Python).
- Built a [Shoe Inventory](https://github.com/Ormeline/shoe-inventory) System – Implemented this project in Python. Users are able to view shoes, add shoes, search for shoes and restock shoes. Stored shoe objects in a list. Used text file to read and write data. Formatted tables with python-tabulate.


## Hobbies

In my spare time, I have two main activities that bring me joy:
- I stay updated with the law by reading recent legal cases, allowing me to maintain my knowledge and understanding in the legal field.
- I also participate in a women's book club organised by my church, where we read various books and arrange monthly meetings to engage in discussions and share our thoughts on the chosen book. This activity provides intellectual stimulation and fosters a sense of community among my church members.

Commit message:

added skills to hyperionDev section

README.md, after:

## Ormeline Luyengi

## Navigation

<div align="center">

[![profile](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Profile-blue?style=for-the-badge)](#profile)
[![projects](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Projects-blue?style=for-the-badge)](#projects)
[![skills](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Skills-blue?style=for-the-badge)](#skills)
[![experience](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Experience-blue?style=for-the-badge)](#experience)
[![education](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Education-blue?style=for-the-badge)](#education)
[![hobbies](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Hobbies-blue?style=for-the-badge)](#hobbies)

</div>

## Where you can find me

<div align="center">

[LinkedIn Profile ↗](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ormeline-luyengi-626491211)
[Email](mailto:luyengiormeline@gmail.com)
[CodeWars Profile ↗](https://www.codewars.com/users/Mellu23)
[GitHub Profile ↗](https://github.com/Ormeline)

</div>


## Profile

I am a diligent and quick-learning software engineer, who is passionate about leveraging technology to create positive change. I become a developer due to the desire of tackling complex problems, constantly learning, and building products that can improve people's lives.

After completing law school, I spent years honing my analytical skills and attention to detail as a paralegal and solicitor specialising in immigration law, family law and civil litigation.

I have recently completed an intensive training at [Makers Academy](https://makers.tech) and [HyperionDev] (https://www.hyperiondev.com/bootcamps/immersive full-stack-web-and-software-engineer/) (London's leading bootcamp providers) to successfully transition into software engineering and make my dream of becoming a developer a reality.

I wish to work for a mission-led company committed to innovation and diversity. I hope to collaborate on impactful projects as part of a fun, encouraging team where I can continue growing my skills. As someone who values empathy, ethics and social justice, I aim to leverage my technical and legal expertise to expand access to technology for the benefit of society.


## Projects
| Name      | Description                                                                                                                                                    | Tech/tools                                                                    | How to access                                                   |
| --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Gig Guru  | A music event finding app inspired by iTunes (final project) - allows users to find events happening in the UK, like the events, and view their exact location | React, Jest, HTML/CSS, Cypress, Discovery API, Google Maps API, MongoDB Atlas | [Github Repo ↗](https://github.com/aliceswood/gig-guru)         |
| Acebook   | Inherited a Facebook clone that was built as part of the week 8-9 Makers engineering group project                                                             | MongoDB, Express, React, Node.js, Cypress, Ruby                               | [Github Repo ↗](https://github.com/cshjp/acebook-team-earth)    |
| MakersBnb | Redesigned Airbnb clone built as part of the week 6 Makers group project                                                                                       | Ruby, Sinatra, PostgreSQL, Capybara, RSpec                                    | [Github Repo ↗](https://github.com/Ormeline/Makersbnb-group-project) |


## Skills

## Technical skills

| Purpose    | Languages        | Front end frameworks | API frameworks | Databases           | Unit testing frameworks | Front end testing frameworks | Code Coverage | Hosting | Styling |
| ---------- | ---------------- | -------------------- | -------------- | ------------------- | ----------------------- | ---------------------------- | ------------- | ------- | ------- |
| Technology | Javascript, Ruby | React                | Express        | MongoDB, PostgreSQL | Rspec, Jest             | Cypress                      | Jest, Rubocop | Heroku  | CSS     |


## Experience

#### Molanza Consulting
**Consultant (Part-Time) (August 2022 - Present)**

- Developing FlightInfoHero, an aggregation platform for airport parking, airline baggage allowance, and seat map data. Tasks include:
- Maintaining Python scripts used for web scraping with Beautiful Soup module to ensure any changes in target websites are reflected.
- Automating the data formatting pipeline by pushing aggregated data to the OpenAI endpoint to ensure all records return consistent.
- Working with CTO on product roadmap and engaging in paired programming to enhance my technical knowledge of the stack used.


#### LegaInfoHero 
**Developer, Co-Founder (Voluntary) (July 2023 to Present)**

Inspired by FlightInfoHero, I started working on a platform where legal advice from all over the internet is aggregated, made easy to understand with the help of AI and presented freely online to help disadvantaged minorities get access to quality advice. Tasks include:
- Writing scripts to aggregate data with Beautiful Soup and convert it into JSON to facilitate direct import into the NextJS frontend. 
- Designed form wizards that ask users a set of legal questions anonymously, then checks backend to automatically return advice.
- Conducted research on Facebook groups and spoke to family and friends to better understand their grievances with the legal system.


#### VLS Solicitors 
**Trainee Solicitor -> Solicitor (June 2021 to July 2022)** 

At VLS, I specialised in Immigration, Civil Litigation, and Family Law as a Trainee Solicitor then qualified Solicitor. My duties included:
- Assisting clients on legal matters such as entry clearance, leave to remain, visa extensions, naturalisation, and revocation of deportation orders. Handling first-tier and upper tribunal appeals. Keeping the firm updated on immigration law and policy changes.
- Training and managing caseworkers and work experience students, tracking their progress and identifying areas for improvement.
- Demonstrated proactive attitude by continuously seeking top-up training, improving commercial awareness through reading articles and seeking new responsibilities in the firm. Exercised efficient time management and developed the ability to work under pressure.


## Non-technical skills

Through my background and intensive programming trainning at Makers Academy and HyperionDev, I have developed a versatile skillset combining technical programming skills and interpersonal abilities that make me a strong candidate for Software Developer roles. Additionally, my legal career has enabled me to develop skills that can add value to any organisation: 

#### Organisation and attention to detail

<p>
<ul>
    <li> As a solicitor, I was entrusted to manage my own caseload as such organisation and meticulous attention to detail were critical in managing case files and legal documents. I developed systems for tracking client information, key dates, and case progress. Reviewing court hearings, supporting documentation and witness statements refined my ability to thoroughly analyse complex documents and pointout inconsistencies. I will bring this same diligence to developer roles in proactively tracking project requirements and maintaining organised code. </li>
    <li> As my GitHub projects will demonstrate, I am a meticulous planner who diagrams and designs her project to make sure that I had a clear project vision. For example, in my Bank Tech Test (<a href="https://github.com/Ormeline/bank-tech-test"></a>) I created a diagram to plan out the classes, methods, and interactions needed to implement the bank account features. I also wrote user stories to define the required functionality from the user's perspective. My README outlines the test-driven development approach I followed, ensuring each class and method was fully tested using Jest. The project structure separates classes into individual files, following the single responsibility principle. I believe this project illustrates my ability to plan effectively and deliver a well-organised, fully tested codebase based on that design.</li>
</ul>
</p>
</details>


#### Project management 
<p>
<ul>
    <li> During my time as a solicitor, I honed my project management skills by effectively leading teams of caseworkers and work experience students. I excelled at delegating tasks, closely monitoring progress, and ensuring that court deadlines were met. Additionally, I demostrated my resourcefulness by managing multiple competing priorities within tight deadlines. </li>
    <li>Through participation in bootcamp group projects, I had the opportunity to refine my skills in agile practices such as sprint planning, task boards, retrospectives, and continuous delivery. This experience has equipped me with the ability to keep engineering teams aligned and ensure the delivery of high-quality code. </li>
</ul>
</p>
</details>


#### Presenting and communicating
<p>
<ul>
    <li> Communication was crucial in my legal career, from persuasively presenting arguments in court to explaining complex legal matters in plain english to clients.</li>
    <li> At Makers, I also gained experience discussing and demonstrating my code to my group by walking through the logic of my code. As a developer, I can apply my strong communication skills to clearly communicate with stakeholders, collaborate with colleagues, explain technical concepts to non-technical groups, and share knowledge across engineering teams.</li>
    <li> I also presented our final project to my Makers cohort where I discussed the technologies used and my team's overall experience. </li> 
</ul>
</p>
</details>


#### Teamwork and interpersonal skills
<p>
<ul>
    <li> I have gained extensive experience in effective communication and collaboration while working with clients, colleagues, barristers, and solicitors in the legal industry. This background has honed my skills as a proficient communicator and an attentive listener. I developed the ability to actively seek input from others, remain open-minded to different ideas, diplomatically resolve differences, and motivate colleagues towards shared goals. </li>
    <li> During my time at Makers Academy, I actively participated in pair programming sessions as well as engaging in group projects. Pair programming, in particular, was a significant component of our daily activities, and I thoroughly enjoyed it. At Molanza Consulting, I often collaborate with CTO on product roadmap and engaging in paired programming to enhance my technical knowledge of the stack used. These experiences further enhanced my teamwork abilities and allowed me to thrive in a collaborative environment</li>
    <li> Understanding the significance of effective pair programming, I took the initiative to documented my own set of guidelines and best practices. This allowed me to consistently improve my approach to pair programming, resulting in stronger pairing sessions and increased productivity. <a href="https://github.com/Ormeline/my-learning-journey-at-Makers/blob/main/weekly-objectives/pair-programming.md">here.</a></li>
</ul>
</p>
</details>

Other transferrable skills include: Critical thinking, Problem solving, Data analysis, Excellent customer service, Consultancy.

## Education

#### Makers Academy (March 2023 to July 2023)

- Full stack web development
- Focus on Test Driven Development, with an emphasis on pairing to problem solve efficiently and working in an agile way. Required team work and effective communication
- Object Oriented Programming & software design
- Independent learner and problem-solver
- Experience with MVC and DDD framework patterns



#### HyperionDev (December 2022 to March 2023)

- Completed the [Software Engineer Bootcamp](https://www.hyperiondev.com/bootcamps/software-engineering/) 13 weeks full time course.
- Learnt the fundamentals skills of backend development and machine learning (Python).
- Built a [Shoe Inventory](https://github.com/Ormeline/shoe-inventory) System – Implemented this project in Python. Users are able to view shoes, add shoes, search for shoes and restock shoes. Stored shoe objects in a list. Used text file to read and write data. Formatted tables with python-tabulate. 
- Practiced input/output operations for interacting with external data sources like files. 
- Gained introductory natural language processing skills like semantic similarity analysis using spaCy library. 
- Completed capstone projects to integrate learnings from data structures, OOP, databases and error handling and more



## Hobbies

In my spare time, I have two main activities that bring me joy:
- I stay updated with the law by reading recent legal cases, allowing me to maintain my knowledge and understanding in the legal field.
- I also participate in a women's book club organised by my church, where we read various books and arrange monthly meetings to engage in discussions and share our thoughts on the chosen book. This activity provides intellectual stimulation and fosters a sense of community among my church members.
